+++
title = "About"
images = []
template = "index.html"
in_search_index = true
+++

Welcome and hello! [I'm Jimmy](/series/self-portraits), a 90's teen that never really grew up. I'm an avid gamer, an obsessive creator and dog lover. Befitting my favorite era, this is my little den on the internet (don't forget to sign my [guestbook](/guestbook) ;). Herein you will find some of my projects and a bit of an insight in to my scatterbrain (_[see blog](/blog/)_). If you would like to contact me then [send me a message](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScIN2i8tudYfvWZO96Ed-_ma011PgZU-CrxRyCXdSA1z9NRjA/viewform). This website is first and foremost for me, it serves as a little diary which gives me a bit of record of the stuff I was up to many moons ago!

---

## Analogue & digital gaming

Gaming is one of my cornerstones, probably as I find non-interactive activities pretty boring! I love [table top gaming](/boardgames) as a way of gathering friends and family around a table and having a great joint experience (feel free to [connect on BoardGameGeek](https://boardgamegeek.com/user/jimmyff)). I love to  [design board games](/tags/gamedev-analogue/) and I've dabbled with [video game development](/tags/gamedev-digital) too. I'm a passionate gamer although I don't get much time for video games these days but I remain a die hard [Nintendo](/tags/nintendo) fan-boy.

---

## Coding & technology

You can find my public projects over on my [Github profile](https://github.com/jimmyff/). I'm always creating something new! My main language is [Dart](/tags/lang-dart), I'm in love with the Flutter framework. I'm also trying to level up my [Rust](/tags/lang-rust) skills. I'm a big fan of serveless technology and my preferred backend is Google Cloud.

---

## Creative arts

I always some creative endeavour on the go, you can check out the [gallery](/gallery) to see some of the things I've made. Some of the mediums include getting messy with clay doing [ceramics](/medium/ceramic/), playing around with my tablet creating [digital art](/medium/digital/) and making a mess with [oil paints](/medium/oil/). I also enjoy to practice yoga.

---

## My work & apps

I run a small independant company called Rocketware. Head over to the [apps](/apps) page for more information!

---

## About this site

This site has been lovingly created in markdown and generated by [Zola](https://getzola.org/) -a wonderfully simple Rust based static site generator. My theme is [Inky](https://github.com/jimmyff/zola-inky) and published on github. The site is also hosted on Github pages and generated in a Github action.
